#  Copyright (c) 1998-2000 by Scriptics Corporation.
#  All rights reserved.
#
#  RCS: @(#) $Id: chooseDirectory.n,v 1.1 2000/01/27 00:23:10 ericm Exp $
#

=head1 NAME

tk_chooseDirectory - pops up a dialog box for the user to select a directory.

=for category  Tk Generic Methods

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<tk_chooseDirectory >?I<option value ...>?

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The procedure B<tk_chooseDirectory> pops up a dialog box for the
user to select a directory. The following I<option-value> pairs are
possible as command line arguments:

=over 4

=item B<-initialdir> I<dirname>

Specifies that the directories in I<directory> should be displayed
when the dialog pops up. If this parameter is not specified, then
the directories in the current working directory are displayed. If the
parameter specifies a relative path, the return value will convert the
relative path to an absolute path.  This option may not always work on
the Macintosh.  This is not a bug. Rather, the I<General Controls>
control panel on the Mac allows the end user to override the
application default directory.

=item B<-parent> $widget

Makes $widget the logical parent of the dialog. The dialog
is displayed on top of its parent window.

=item B<-title> I<titleString>

Specifies a string to display as the title of the dialog box. If this
option is not specified, then a default title will be displayed.

=item B<-mustexist> I<boolean>

Specifies whether the user may specify non-existant directories.  If
this parameter is true, then the user may only select directories that
already exist.  The default value is I<false>.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Tk::getOpenFile>, L<Tk::getOpenFile>

=head1 KEYWORDS

directory selection dialog
