#  Copyright (c) 1992 The Regents of the University of California.
#  Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
#  See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
#  of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
#
#

=head1 NAME

Tk::Dialog - Create modal dialog and wait for a response.

=for pm Tk/Dialog.pm

=for category Popups and Dialogs

=head1 SYNOPSIS

S<    >I<$dialog> = I<$parent>-E<gt>B<Dialog>(I<-option> =E<gt> I<value>, ... );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This procedure is part of the Tk script library - its arguments describe a
dialog box.
After creating a dialog box, B<Dialog> waits for the user to
select one of the buttons either by clicking on the button with the
mouse or by typing return to invoke the default button (if any).
Then it returns the text string of the selected button.

While waiting for the user to respond, B<Dialog> sets a local
grab.  This prevents the user from interacting with the application
in any way except to invoke the dialog box.  See B<Show()> method.

The following option/value pairs are supported:

=over 4

=item B<-title>

Text to appear in the window manager's title bar for the dialog.

=item B<-text>

Message to appear in the top portion of the dialog box.

=item B<-bitmap>

If non-empty, specifies a bitmap to display in the top portion of
the dialog, to the left of the text.
If this is an empty string then no bitmap is displayed in the dialog.

=item B<-default_button>

Text label string of the button that displays the default ring.

=item B<-buttons>

A reference to a list of button label strings.
Each I<string> specifies text to display in a button,
in order from left to right.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item C<$answer = $dialog-E<gt>B<Show>(?-global?);>

This method displays the dialog, waits for the user's response, and stores
the text string of the selected button in C<$answer>.  If I<-global> is
specified a global (rather than local) grab is performed.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

I<$dialog> = I<$mw>-E<gt>B<Dialog>(-text =E<gt> 'Save File?', -bitmap =E<gt> 'question', -title =E<gt> 'Save File Dialog', -default_button =E<gt> 'Yes', -buttons =E<gt> [qw/Yes No Cancel/);

=head1 KEYWORDS

bitmap, dialog, modal, messageBox

=cut

