#  Copyright (c) 1996, Expert Interface Technologies
#  See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and
#  redistribution of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
#  The file man.macros and some of the macros used by this file are
#  copyrighted: (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
#               (c) 1994-1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
#  The license terms of the Tcl/Tk distrobution are in the file
#  license.tcl.

## TO CHECK:
##
## callback:  checked for defined of code ref (compare -edit*cmd)
##
## option
##	formatcmd  mentions format method but there is no format
##		   method documented
##
## methods:
##	anchor:    what is required 'option' arg?
## 	bdtype:    what is it? no description given
##	see:	   not documented? Not implemented??
##
## todo:	missing peaces marked by ????

=head1 NAME

Tk::TixGrid - Create and manipulate Tix Grid widgets

=for category Tix Extensions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

S<    >I<$tixgrid> = I<$parent>->B<TixGrid>?(I<options>)?;

=head1 STANDARD OPTIONS

B<-background>
	B<-borderwidth>
	B<-cursor>
	B<-font>
	B<-foreground>
	B<-height>
	B<-highlightbackground>
	B<-highlightcolor>
	B<-highlightthickness>
	B<-padx>
	B<-pady>
	B<-relief>
	B<-selectbackground>
	B<-selectborderwidth>
	B<-selectforeground>
	B<-state>
	B<-takefocus>
	B<-width>
	B<-xscrollcommand>
	B<-yscrollcommand>

See L<Tk::options> for details of the standard options.

=head1 WIDGET-SPECIFIC OPTIONS

B<Undocumented (also in Tix manpage):>
-floatingcols (=0),
-floatingrows (=0),
-itemtype (=text),
-sizecmd (=undef),

=over 4

=item Name:	B<editDoneCmd>

=item Class:	B<EditDoneCmd>

=item Switch:	B<-editdonecmd>

If defined, gives a perl/Tk L<callback|Tk::callbacks>
to be executed when the
user has edited grid cell. When this callback is called, it is
passed with two additional parameters: I<x> I<y>, where (I<x>,I<y>)
is the location of the cell that has just been edited.

=item Name:	B<editNotifyCmd>

=item Class:	B<EditNotifyCmd>

=item Switch:	B<-editnotifycmd>

If defined gives a perl/Tk L<callback|Tk::callbacks>
to be executed when the user tries to edit a grid cell.
When this callback is called, it is passed with two additional
parameters: I<x> I<y>, where (I<x>,I<y>,) is the location
of the cell. This callback should return a boolean value: B<true>
indicates that the cell is editable and B<false> otherwise.

=item Name:	B<formatCmd>

=item Class:	B<FormatCmd>

=item Switch:	B<-formatcmd>

If defined, gives a perl/Tk L<callback|Tk::callbacks> to be
executed when the grid cells need to be formatted on the screen.
Normally, this callback calls the B<format> method (see below).
When this callback is called, it is passed with five additional
parameters: I<type> I<x1> I<y1> I<x2> I<y2>. I<type> gives the
logical type of the region in the grid. It may be one of the
following.

=over 8

=item B<x-region>

the horizontal margin

=item B<y-region>

the vertical margin

=item B<s-region>

the area where the the horizontal and vertical margins are joined

=item B<main>

all the cells that do not fall into the above three types

=back

I<x1> I<y1> I<x2> I<y2> gives the extent of the region that needs
formatting.

=item Name:	B<leftMargin>

=item Class:	B<LeftMargin>

=item Switch:	B<-leftmargin>

In the number of cells, gives the width of vertical margin.
A zero indicates that no vertical should be drawn.

=item Name:	B<selectMode>

=item Class:	B<SelectMode>

=item Switch:	B<-selectmode>

Specifies one of several styles for manipulating the selection.
The value of the option may be arbitrary, but the default bindings
expect it to be either B<single>, B<browse>, B<multiple>, or B<extended>;
the default value is B<single>.

=item Name:	B<selectUnit>

=item Class:	B<SelectUnit>

=item Switch:	B<-selectunit>

Specifies the selection unit. Valid values are B<cell>, B<column> or B<row>.

=item Name:	B<topMargin>

=item Class:	B<TopMargin>

=item Switch:	B<-topmargin>

In the number of cells, gives the height of horizontal margin.
A zero indicates that no horizontal should be drawn.

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<TixGrid> method creates a TixGrid new window and returns a
blessed reference of this TixGrid widget.
Additional options,
described above, may be specified on the command line or in the
option database to configure aspects of the B<TixGrid> widget
such as its cursor and relief.

A Grid widget displays its contents in a two dimensional grid of cells.
Each cell may contain one Tix display item, which may be in text,
graphics or other formats. See L<Tk::DItem> for more information
about Tix display items. Individual cells, or groups of cells,
can be formatted with a wide range of attributes, such as its color,
relief and border.

=head1 WIDGET METHODS

The B<TixGrid> method creates a TixGrid widget and returns a blessed
reference of this TixGrid widget.  This reference may be used to
invoke various operations on the widget.  It has the following general
form:

S<    >I<$tixgrid>->B<method>?(I<arg, arg, ...>)?

I<arg>s determine the exact behavior of the method. The following
methods are possible for B<TixGrid> widgets:

=over 4

=item I<$tixgrid>->B<anchor>(I<option>?, I<args>, I<...>?)

Manipulates the B<anchor cell> of the B<TixGrid> widget.
The anchor cell is the end of the selection that is fixed
while the user is dragging out a selection with the mouse.

=item I<$tixgrid>->B<bdtype>

????

=item I<$tixgrid>->B<cget>('I<-option>')

Returns the current value of the configuration option given
by I<-option>. I<-option> may have any of the values accepted
by the B<TixGrid> constructor method.

=item I<$tixgrid>->B<configure>(?I<-option>??=>I<value>, I<-option>=>I<value>, I<...>?)

Query or modify the configuration options of the widget.
If no I<-option> is specified, returns a list describing all
of the available options for I<$tixgrid> (see B<Tk_ConfigureInfo>
for information on the format of this list.) If I<-option> is
specified with no I<value>, then the method returns a list describing
the one named option (this list will be identical to the corresponding
sublist of the value returned if no I<-option> is specified).
If one or more I<option-value> pairs are specified, then the
method modifies the given widget option(s) to have the given value(s);
in this case the method returns an empty string. I<-option> may have
any of the values accepted by the B<TixGrid> constructor method.

=item I<$tixgrid>->B<delete>(I<dim>, I<from>?, I<to>?)

=item I<$tixgrid>->B<deleteColumn>(I<from>?, I<to>?)

=item I<$tixgrid>->B<deleteRow>(I<from>?, I<to>?)

I<Dim> may be B<row> or B<column>. If I<to> is not given,
deletes a single row (or column) at the position I<from>.
If I<to> is given, deletes the range of rows (or columns)
from position I<from> through I<to>.

=item I<$tixgrid>->B<editApply>

If any cell is being edited, de-highlight the cell and
applies the changes.

=item I<$tixgrid>->B<editSet>(I<x>, I<y>)

Highlights the cell at (I<x>,I<y>) for editing,
if the B<-editnotify> callback returns true for this cell.

=item I<$tixgrid>->B<entrycget>(I<x>, I<y>, 'I<-option>')

Returns the current value of the configuration option given by
I<-option> of the cell at (I<x>,I<y>).  I<-option> may have any
of the values accepted by the B<set> method.

=item I<$tixgrid>->B<entryconfigure>(I<x>, I<y>?, I<-option>??=>I<value>, I<-option>=>I<value>, I<...>?)

Query or modify the configuration options of the cell at (I<x>,I<y>).
If no I<-option> is specified, returns a list describing all of the
available options for the cell (see B<Tk_ConfigureInfo> for information
on the format of this list.)  If I<-option> is specified with no
I<value>, then the method returns a list describing the one named
option (this list will be identical to the corresponding sublist
of the value returned if no I<-option> is specified.) If one or
more I<option-value> pairs are specified, then the method modifies
the given widget option(s) to have the given value(s); in this case
the method returns an empty string.  I<Option> may have any of the
values accepted by the B<set> method.

=item I<$tixgrid>->B<format>

???

=item I<$tixgrid>->B<index>

???

=item I<$tixgrid>->B<move>(I<dim>, I<from>, I<to>, I<offset>)

=item I<$tixgrid>->B<moveColumn>(I<from>, I<to>, I<offset>)

=item I<$tixgrid>->B<moveRow>(I<from>, I<to>, I<offset>)

I<Dim> may be B<row> or B<column>. Moves the the range of rows
(or columns) from position I<from> through I<to> by the distance
indicated by I<offset>. For example,
I<$tixgrid>->B<moveRow>(B<2>, B<4>, B<1>) moves the rows 2,3,4
to rows 3,4,5.

=item I<$tixgrid>->B<set>(I<x>, I<y>?, B<-itemtype>=>I<type>??, I<-option>=>I<value>, I<...>?)

Creates a new display item at the cell at (I<x>,I<y>). The optional
B<-itemtype> parameter gives the type of the display item.
An additional list of I<option-value> pairs specify options
of the display item. If a display item already exists at this cell,
the old item will be deleted automatically.

=item I<$tixgrid>->B<size>(I<dim>, I<index>?, I<-option>??=>I<value>, I<...>?)

=item I<$tixgrid>->B<sizeColumn>(I<index>?, I<-option>??=>I<value>, I<...>?)

=item I<$tixgrid>->B<sizeRow>(I<index>?, I<-option>??=>I<value>, I<...>?)

Queries or sets the size of the row or column given by I<dim> and
I<index>. I<Dim> may be B<row> or B<column>.  I<Index> may be any
non-negative integer that gives the position of a given row (or column).
I<Index> can also be the string B<default>; in this case, this method
queries or sets the default size of all rows (or columns).
When no I<option-value> pair is given, this method returns
a list containing the current size setting of the given row (or column).
When I<option-value> pairs are given, the corresponding options
of the size setting of the given row are changed. I<-option> may be
one of the following:

=over 8

=item B<-pad0> => I<pixels>

Specifies the paddings to the left or a column or the top of a row.

=item B<-pad1> => I<pixels>

Specifies the paddings to the right or a column or the bottom of a row.

=item B<-size> => I<val>

Specifies the width of a column or the height of a row.
I<Val> may be: B<auto> -- the width of the column is set
the the widest cell in the column; a valid Tk screen distance
unit (see B<Tk_GetPixels>); or a real number following by the
word B<chars> (e.g. B<3.4chars>) that sets the width of the
column to the given number of characters.

=back

=item I<$tixgrid>->B<unset>(I<x>, I<y>)

Clears the cell at (I<x>,I<y>) by removing its display item.

=item I<$tixgrid>->B<xview>

????

=item I<$tixgrid>->B<yview>

????

=back

=head1 BINDINGS

to be done.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Tk::DItem|Tk::DItem>
L<Tk::callbacks|Tk::callbacks>

=head1 BUGS

I<Default bindings not implemented.>

=head1 KEYWORDS

tix, tixgrid, table, display item, spreadsheet

=cut
