'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1990-1994 The Regents of the University of California.
'\" Copyright (c) 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" @(#) FileHndlr.3 1.12 95/05/06 15:29:24
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH Tk_CreateFileHandler 3 4.0 Tk "Tk Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tk_CreateFileHandler, Tk_CreateFileHandler2, Tk_DeleteFileHandler \- associate procedure callbacks with files or devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tk.h>\fR
.sp
\fBTk_CreateFileHandler\fR(\fIid, mask, proc, clientData\fR)
.sp
.VS
\fBTk_CreateFileHandler2\fR(\fIid, proc2, clientData\fR)
.VE
.sp
\fBTk_DeleteFileHandler\fR(\fIid\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Tk_FileProc clientData
.AP int id in
Integer identifier for an open file or device (such as returned by
\fBopen\fR system call).
.AP int mask in
Conditions under which \fIproc\fR should be called:
OR-ed combination of \fBTK_READABLE\fR, \fBTK_WRITABLE\fR,
and \fBTK_EXCEPTION\fR.
.AP Tk_FileProc *proc in
Procedure to invoke whenever the file or device indicated
by \fIid\fR meets the conditions specified by \fImask\fR.
.AP Tk_FileProc2 *proc2 in
Procedure to invoke from event loop to check whether \fIfd\fR
is ready and, if so, handle it.
.AP ClientData clientData in
Arbitrary one-word value to pass to \fIproc\fR.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBTk_CreateFileHandler\fR arranges for \fIproc\fR to be
invoked in the future whenever I/O becomes possible on a file
or an exceptional condition exists for the file.  The file
is indicated by \fIid\fR, and the conditions of interest
are indicated by \fImask\fR.  For example, if \fImask\fR
is \fBTK_READABLE\fR, \fIproc\fR will be called when
the file is readable.
The callback to \fIproc\fR is made by \fBTk_DoOneEvent\fR, so
\fBTk_CreateFileHandler\fR is only useful
in programs that dispatch events
through \fBTk_DoOneEvent\fR or through other Tk procedures that
call \fBTk_DoOneEvent\fR, such as \fBTk_MainLoop\fR.
.PP
\fIProc\fP should have arguments and result that match the
type \fBTk_FileProc\fR:
.nf
.RS
typedef void Tk_FileProc(
.RS
ClientData \fIclientData\fR,
int \fImask\fR);
.RE
.RE
.fi
The \fIclientData\fP parameter to \fIproc\fR is a copy
of the \fIclientData\fP
argument given to \fBTk_CreateFileHandler\fR when the callback
was created.  Typically, \fIclientData\fR points to a data
structure containing application-specific information about
the file.  \fIMask\fR is an integer mask indicating which
of the requested conditions actually exists for the file;  it
will contain a subset of the bits in the \fImask\fR argument
to \fBTk_CreateFileHandler\fR.
.PP
.VS
\fBTk_CreateFileHandler2\fR also creates a file handler,
but it provides a lower-level and more flexible interface.
The callback procedure \fIproc2\fR must have arguments and result
that match the following prototype:
.nf
.RS
typedef int Tk_FileProc2(
.RS
ClientData \fIclientData\fR,
int \fImask\fR,
int \fIflags\fR);
.RE
.RE
.fi
.LP
Whereas a file handler created by \fBTk_CreateFileHandler\fR is
only invoked when the file is known to be ``ready'', a file handler
created by \fBTk_CreateFileHandler2\fR is invoked on every pass
through the the event loop (\fBTk_DoWhenIdle\fR); it gets to
determine whether the file is ``ready'' or not.
The \fImask\fR argument contains an OR'ed combination of the
bits \fBTK_READABLE\fR, \fBTK_WRITABLE\fR, and \fBTK_EXCEPTION\fR,
which indicate whether the file is known to be readable, writable,
or to have an exceptional condition present (this is the case if
\fBselect\fR has been invoked since the previous call to \fIproc2\fR,
and if it indicated that the specified conditions were present).
\fIproc2\fR may use this information along with additional information
of its own, such as knowledge about buffered data, to decide whether
the file is really ``ready''.
The \fIflags\fR argument is a copy of the flags passed to
\fBTk_DoOneEvent\fR, which may be used by \fIproc2\fR to ignore
the file if the appropriate bit, such as \fBTK_FILE_EVENTS\fR,
is not present.
.PP
\fIproc2\fR must return an integer value that is either \fBTK_FILE_HANDLED\fR
or an OR-ed combination of \fBTK_READABLE\fR, \fBTK_WRITABLE\fR, and
\fBTK_EXCEPTION\fR.
If the return value is \fBTK_FILE_HANDLED\fR it means that the file
was ``ready'' and that \fIproc2\fR handled the ready condition;
\fBTk_DoOneEvent\fR will return immediately.
If the return value is not \fBTK_FILE_HANDLED\fR, then it indicates
the set of conditions that should be checked for the file if the
current invocation of \fBTk_DoWhenIdle\fR invokes \fBselect\fR.
Typically the return value reflects all of the conditions that
\fIproc2\fR cares about.
A zero return value means that the file should be ignored if
\fBTk_DoWhenIdle\fR calls \fBselect\fR (this could happen, for
example, if the \fIflags\fR
argument specified that this file's events should be ignored).
The value returned by \fIproc2\fR only affects a \fBselect\fR call
from the current invocation of \fBTk_DoOneEvent\fR;  the next
invocation of \fBTk_DoOneEvent\fR will call \fIproc2\fR afresh
to get new information.
.VE
.PP
There may exist only one handler for a given file at a given
time.  If \fBTk_CreateFileHandler\fR or \fBTk_CreateFileHandler2\fR
is called when a handler already exists for \fIid\fR, then the
new callback replaces the information that was
previously recorded.
.PP
\fBTk_DeleteFileHandler\fR may be called to delete the
file handler for \fIid\fR;  if no handler exists for the
file given by \fIid\fR then the procedure has no effect.
.PP
The purpose of file handlers is to enable an application to
respond to X events and other events while waiting for files
to become ready for I/O.  For this to work correctly, the
application may need to use non-blocking I/O operations on the
files for which handlers are declared.  Otherwise the application
may be put to sleep if it reads or writes too much data;
while waiting for the I/O to complete the
application won't be able to service other events.  In BSD-based
UNIX systems, non-blocking I/O can be specified for a file using
the \fBfcntl\fR kernel call with the \fBFNDELAY\fR flag.

.SH KEYWORDS
callback, file, handler
