'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1994 The Regents of the University of California.
'\" Copyright (c) 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" @(#) EventInit.3 1.4 95/05/06 15:29:22
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH Tk_EventInit 3 4.0 Tk "Tk Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tk_EventInit \- Use the Tk event loop without the rest of Tk
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tk.h>\fR
.sp
int
\fBTk_EventInit\fR(\fIinterp\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Tcl_Interp *interp
.AP Tcl_Interp *interp in
Interpreter in which event-related Tk commands are to be created.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This procedure may be invoked to use the Tk event management functions
without the rest of Tk (e.g., in applications that do not have access
to a display).
\fBTk_EventInit\fR creates the \fBafter\fR and \fBfileevent\fR commands
in \fIinterp\fR.
It also creates versions of the \fBtkwait\fR and \fBupdate\fR commands
with reduced functionality:  the \fBtkwait\fR command supports only
the \fBvariable\fR option, not \fBvisibility\fR or \fBwindow\fR,
and \fBupdate\fR does not check for X events.
\fBTk_EventInit\fR always returns \fBTCL_OK\fR to signal that it
completed successfully.
.PP
The event-management procedures in Tk are divided into two
groups, those that can be used stand-alone and those that
require the full Tk library to be present.
The following procedures may be used stand-alone:
\fBTk_CreateFileHandler\fR, \fBTk_CreateFileHandler2\fR,
\fBTk_DeleteFileHandler\fR, \fBTk_CreateTimerHandler\fR,
\fBTk_DeleteTimerHandler\fR, \fBTk_DoWhenIdle\fR, \fBTk_CancelIdleCall\fR,
\fBTk_DoOneEvent\fR, \fBTk_Sleep\fR, and \fBTk_BackgroundError\fR.
Note that \fBTk_MainLoop\fR cannot be used without the full Tk library,
since it checks to see if windows are still open.
If an application uses the event procedures stand-alone, it must
include its own main loop that invokes \fBTk_DoOneEvent\fR repeatedly.
.PP
\fBTk_EventInit\fR is typically called from an application's
\fBTcl_AppInit\fR procedure;  it should not be invoked in applications
that use the full Tk library (e.g., those that have already invoked
\fBTk_CreateMainWindow\fR).
However, it is OK for an application to start up using \fBTk_EventInit\fR,
compute without X for a while, and later invoke \fBTk_CreateMainWindow\fR.
When \fBTk_CreateMainWindow\fR is invoked, the full suite of windowing
Tcl commands will become available, and the full-blown versions of
\fBtkwait\fR and \fBupdate\fR will replace the abridged versions
created with \fBTk_EventInit\fR.

.SH KEYWORDS
event management, Tcl_AppInit
