'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1990-1994 The Regents of the University of California.
'\" Copyright (c) 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" @(#) ManageGeom.3 1.11 95/05/28 13:52:11
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH Tk_ManageGeometry 3 4.0 Tk "Tk Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tk_ManageGeometry \- arrange to handle geometry requests for a window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tk.h>\fR
.sp
.VS
\fBTk_ManageGeometry\fR(\fItkwin, mgrPtr, clientData\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Tk_GeometryProc clientData
.AP Tk_Window tkwin in
Token for window to be managed.
.AP Tk_GeomMgr *mgrPtr in
Pointer to data structure containing information about the
geometry manager, or NULL to indicate that \fItkwin\fR's geometry
shouldn't be managed anymore.
The data structure pointed to by \fImgrPtr\fR must be static:
Tk keeps a reference to it as long as the window is managed.
.AP ClientData clientData in
Arbitrary one-word value to pass to geometry manager callbacks.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBTk_ManageGeometry\fR arranges for a particular geometry manager,
described by the \fImgrPtr\fR argument, to control the geometry
of a particular slave window, given by \fItkwin\fR.
If \fItkwin\fR was previously managed by some other geometry manager,
the previous manager loses control in favor of the new one.
If \fImgrPtr\fR is NULL, geometry management is cancelled for
\fItkwin\fR.
.PP
The structure pointed to by \fImgrPtr\fR contains information about
the geometry manager:
.nf
.RS
\fBtypedef struct {\fR
.RS
\fBchar *\fIname\fB;
\fBTk_GeomRequestProc *\fIrequestProc\fB;
\fBTk_GeomLostSlaveProc *\fIlostSlaveProc\fB;\fR
.RE
\fB} Tk_GeomMgr;\fR
.RE
.fi
The \fIname\fR field is the textual name for the geometry manager,
such as \fBpack\fR or \fBplace\fR;  this value will be returned
by the command \fBwinfo manager\fR.
.PP
\fIrequestProc\fR is a procedure in the geometry manager that
will be invoked whenever \fBTk_GeometryRequest\fR is called by the
slave to change its desired geometry.
\fIrequestProc\fP should have arguments and results that match the
type \fBTk_GeomRequestProc\fR:
.nf
.RS
\fBtypedef void Tk_GeomRequestProc(\fR
.RS
\fBClientData \fIclientData\fB,
\fBTk_Window \fItkwin\fB);\fR
.RE
.RE
.fi
The parameters to \fIrequestProc\fR will be identical to the
corresponding parameters passed to \fBTk_ManageGeometry\fR.
\fIclientData\fR usually points to a data
structure containing application-specific information about
how to manage \fItkwin\fR's geometry.
.PP
The \fIlostSlaveProc\fR field of \fImgrPtr\fR points to another
procedure in the geometry manager.
Tk will invoke \fIlostSlaveProc\fR if some other manager
calls \fBTk_ManageGeometry\fR to claim
\fItkwin\fR away from the current geometry manager.
\fIlostSlaveProc\fR is not invoked if \fBTk_ManageGeometry\fR is
called with a NULL value for \fImgrPtr\fR (presumably the current
geometry manager has made this call, so it already knows that the
window is no longer managed), nor is it called if \fImgrPtr\fR
is the same as the window's current geometry manager.
\fIlostSlaveProc\fR should have
arguments and results that match the following prototype:
.nf
.RS
\fBtypedef void Tk_GeomLostSlaveProc(\fR
.RS
\fBClientData \fIclientData\fB,
\fBTk_Window \fItkwin\fB);\fR
.RE
.RE
.fi
The parameters to \fIlostSlaveProc\fR will be identical to the
corresponding parameters passed to \fBTk_ManageGeometry\fR.

.VE
.SH KEYWORDS
callback, geometry, managed, request, unmanaged
