.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH CMDLINE 1 "perl 5.005, patch 53" "17/Jul/98" "User Contributed Perl Documentation"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
Tk::CmdLine \- Process standard X11 command line options
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\ \ \ \ \fBuse Tk::CmdLine;\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The X11R5 man page for X11 says :
.PP
\*(L"Most X programs attempt to use the same  names  for  command
line  options  and arguments.  All applications written with
the X Toolkit Intrinsics automatically accept the  following
options: ...\*(R"
.PP
This module implemements these command line options for perl/Tk
applications.
.PP
The options which are processed are :
.Ip "\fB\-display\fR \fIdisplay\fR" 4
This option specifies the name of the  X  server  to
use.
.Ip "\fB\-geometry\fR \fIgeometry\fR" 4
This option specifies the initial size and  location
of the \fIfirst\fR MainWindow.
.Ip "\fB\-bg\fR \fIcolor\fR, \fB\-background\fR \fIcolor\fR" 4
Either option specifies the color  to  use  for  the
window background.
.Ip "\fB\-bd\fR \fIcolor\fR,  \fB\-bordercolor\fR \fIcolor\fR" 4
Either option specifies the color  to  use  for  the
window border.
.Ip "\fB\-bw\fR \fInumber\fR,  \fB\-borderwidth\fR \fInumber\fR" 4
Either option specifies the width in pixels  of  the
window border.
.Ip "\fB\-fg\fR \fIcolor\fR, \fB\-foreground\fR \fIcolor\fR" 4
Either option specifies the color to use for text or
graphics.
.Ip "\fB\-fn\fR \fIfont\fR, \fB\-font\fR \fIfont\fR" 4
Either option specifies the font to use for displaying text.
.Ip "\fB\-iconic\fR" 4
This option indicates that  the  user  would  prefer
that  the  application's  windows  initially  not be
visible as if the windows had be immediately  iconi
fied by the user.  Window managers may choose not to
honor the application's request.
.Ip "\fB\-name\fR" 4
This option specifies the name under which resources
for the application should be found.  This option is
useful in shell aliases to distinguish between invocations
of  an  application,  without  resorting to
creating links to alter the executable file name.
See also the \fITk::option\fR manpage for details about resources.
.Ip "\fB\-rv\fR, \fB\-reverse\fR" 4
Either option  indicates  that  the  program  should
simulate  reverse  video if possible, often by swapping
the foreground and background colors.  Not  all
programs  honor  this or implement it correctly.  It
is usually only used on monochrome displays.
.Sp
\fITk::CmdLine ignores this option.\fR
.Ip "\fB+rv\fR" 4
This option indicates that the  program  should  not
simulate reverse video. This is used to override any
defaults since reverse  video  doesn't  always  work
properly.
.Sp
\fITk::CmdLine ignores this option.\fR
.Ip "\fB\-selectionTimeout\fR" 4
This option specifies the  timeout  in  milliseconds
within  which  two  communicating  applications must
respond to one another for a selection request.
.Sp
\fITk::CmdLine ignores this option.\fR
.Ip "\fB\-synchronous\fR" 4
This option indicates that requests to the X  server
should  be  sent synchronously, instead of
asynchronously.  Since Xlib normally buffers requests to the
server,  errors  do  not  necessarily  get  reported
immediately after they occur.  This option turns off
the   buffering  so  that  the  application  can  be
debugged.  It should never be used  with  a  working
program.
.Ip "\fB\-title\fR \fIstring\fR" 4
This option specifies the title to be used for  this
window.   This  information  is  sometimes used by a
window manager to provide some sort of header  identifying
the window.
.Ip "\fB\-xnllanguage\fR \fIlanguage[_territory][.codeset]\fR" 4
This option specifies the language,  territory,  and
codeset  for  use  in  resolving  resource and other
filenames.
.Sp
\fITk::CmdLine ignores this option.\fR
.Ip "\fB\-xrm\fR \fIresourcestring\fR" 4
This option specifies a resource name and value to
override any defaults.  It is also very useful for
setting resources that don't have  explicit command
line arguments.
.Sp
The \fIresourcestring\fR is of the form \f(CWname:value\fR, that is (the first) \*(L':\*(R'
is the used to determine which part is name and which part is value.
The name/value pair is entered into the options database with \fBoptionAdd\fR
(for each MainWindow configured), with \*(L"interactive\*(R" priority.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Tk::MainWindow

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "CMDLINE 1"
.IX Name "Tk::CmdLine - Process standard X11 command line options"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Item "\fB\-display\fR \fIdisplay\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-geometry\fR \fIgeometry\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-bg\fR \fIcolor\fR, \fB\-background\fR \fIcolor\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-bd\fR \fIcolor\fR,  \fB\-bordercolor\fR \fIcolor\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-bw\fR \fInumber\fR,  \fB\-borderwidth\fR \fInumber\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-fg\fR \fIcolor\fR, \fB\-foreground\fR \fIcolor\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-fn\fR \fIfont\fR, \fB\-font\fR \fIfont\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-iconic\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-name\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-rv\fR, \fB\-reverse\fR"

.IX Item "\fB+rv\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-selectionTimeout\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-synchronous\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-title\fR \fIstring\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-xnllanguage\fR \fIlanguage[_territory][.codeset]\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-xrm\fR \fIresourcestring\fR"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

