.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH ERROR 1 "perl 5.005, patch 53" "15/Jul/98" "User Contributed Perl Documentation"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
Tk::Error \- Method invoked to process background errors
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
Customization:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&    require Tk::ErrorDialog;
.Ve
or
.PP
.Vb 4
\&    sub Tk::Error
\&    {
\&      my ($widget,$error,@locations) = @_;
\&      ...
.Ve
.Vb 1
\&    }
.Ve
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBTk::Error\fR method is invoked by perl/Tk when a background
error occurs. Two possible implementations are provided in the
distribution and individual applications or users can (re)define a \fBTk::Error\fR
method (e.g. as a perl sub) if they wish to handle background
errors in some other manner.
.PP
A background error is one that occurs in a command that didn't
originate with the application.  For example, if an error occurs
while executing a callback specified with a
bind or a after
command, then it is a background error.  For a non-background error,
the error can simply be returned up through nested subroutines
until it reaches the top-level code in the application;
then the application can report the error in whatever way it
wishes.  When a background error occurs, the unwinding ends in
the Tk library and there is no obvious way for Tk to report
the error.
.PP
When Tk detects a background error, it saves information about the
error and invokes the \fBTk::Error\fR method later when Tk is idle.
.PP
\fBTk::Error\fR is invoked by perl/Tk as if by the perl code:
.PP
\ \ \ \ \fI$mainwindow\fR\->\fBTk::Error\fR(\fI"error message\*(R"\fR, \fIlocation ...\fR);
.PP
\fI$mainwindow\fR is the \fBMainWindow\fR associated with widget which
detected the error, \fI"error message\*(R"\fR is a string describing the error
that has been detected, \fIlocation\fR is a list of one or more \*(L"locations\*(R"
which describe the call sequence at the point the error was detected.
.PP
The locations are a typically a mixture of perl location reports giving
script name and line number, and simple strings describing locations in
core Tk or perl/Tk C code.
.PP
Tk will ignore any result returned by the \fBTk::Error\fR method.
If another error occurs within the \fBTk::Error\fR method
(for example if it calls \fBdie\fR) then Tk reports this error
itself by writing a message to stderr (this is to avoid infinite loops
due to any bugs in \fBTk::Error\fR).
.PP
If several background errors accumulate before \fBTk::Error\fR
is invoked to process them, \fBTk::Error\fR will be invoked once
for each error, in the order they occurred.
However, if \fBTk::Error\fR calls \fBTk->break\fR, then
any remaining errors are skipped without calling \fBTk::Error\fR.
.PP
The \fBTk\fR module includes a default \fBTk::Error\fR subroutine
that simply reports the error on stderr.
.PP
An alternate definition is provided via :
.PP
\ \ \ \ \f(CWrequire Tk::ErrorDialog;\fR
.PP
that posts a dialog box containing the error message and offers
the user a chance to see a stack trace showing where the
error occurred.
.SH "BUGS"
If \fBafter\fR or \fBfileevent\fR are not invoked as methods of a widget
then perl/Tk is unable to provide a \fI$mainwindow\fR argument.
To support such code from earlier versions of perl/Tk
perl/Tk therefore calls \fBTk::Error\fR with string \*(L'Tk\*(R' instead:
\fBTk->Tk::Error\e(...\e)\fR.
In this case the \fBTk::Error\fR in \fBTk::ErrorDialog\fR and similar
implementations cannot \*(L"popup\*(R" a window as they don't know which display
to use.  A mechanism to supply \fIthe\fR \fBMainWindow\fR in applications
which only have one (a very common case) should be provided.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Tk::bind
Tk::after
Tk::fileevent
.SH "KEYWORDS"
background error, reporting

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "ERROR 1"
.IX Name "Tk::Error - Method invoked to process background errors"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "BUGS"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "KEYWORDS"

