.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH FileDialog 3 "Tk402.003" "11/Sep/97" "perl/Tk Documentation"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
Tk::FileDialog \- A highly configurable File Dialog widget for Perl/Tk.  
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The widget is composed of a number
.PP
use vars \fIqw\fR\|($VERSION);
\f(CW$VERSION\fR = \*(L'2.000\*(R'; # \f(CW$Id:\fR //depot/Tk/Contrib/FileDialog.pm#7$
.PP
of sub-widgets, namely, a listbox for files and (optionally) directories, an entry
for filename, an (optional) entry for pathname, an entry for a filter pattern, a \*(L'ShowAll\*(R'
checkbox (for enabling display of .* files and directories), and three buttons, namely
OK, Rescan, and Cancel.  Note that the labels for all subwidgets (including the text
for the buttons and Checkbox) are configurable for foreign language support.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.Sh "Usage Description"
To use FileDialog, simply create your FileDialog objects during initialization (or at
least before a Show).  When you wish to display the FileDialog, invoke the \*(L'Show\*(R' method
on the FileDialog object;  The method will return either a file name, a path name, or
undef.  undef is returned only if the user pressed the Cancel button.
.Sh "Example Code"
The following code creates a FileDialog and calls it.  Note that perl5.002gamma is
required.
.Ip "" 8
.Sp
.Vb 1
\& #!/usr/local/bin/perl -w
.Ve
.Vb 3
\& use Tk;
\& use Tk::FileDialog;
\& use strict;
.Ve
.Vb 3
\& my($main) = MainWindow->new;
\& my($Horiz) = 1;
\& my($fname);
.Ve
.Vb 2
\& my($LoadDialog) = $main->FileDialog(-Title =>'This is my title',
\&                                    -Create => 0);
.Ve
.Vb 2
\& $LoadDialog->configure(-FPat => '*pl',
\&                       -ShowAll => 'NO');
.Ve
.Vb 3
\& $main->Entry(-textvariable => \e$fname)
\&        ->pack(-expand => 1,
\&               -fill => 'x');
.Ve
.Vb 10
\& $main->Button(-text => 'Kick me!',
\&              -command => sub {
\&                  $fname = $LoadDialog->Show(-Horiz => $Horiz);
\&                  if (!defined($fname)) {
\&                      $fname = "Fine,Cancel, but no Chdir anymore!!!";
\&                      $LoadDialog->configure(-Chdir =>'NO');
\&                  }
\&              })
\&        ->pack(-expand => 1,
\&               -fill => 'x');
.Ve
.Vb 4
\& $main->Checkbutton(-text => 'Horizontal',
\&                   -variable => \e$Horiz)
\&        ->pack(-expand => 1,
\&               -fill => 'x');
.Ve
.Vb 6
\& $main->Button(-text => 'Exit',
\&              -command => sub {
\&                  $main->destroy;
\&              })
\&        ->pack(-expand => 1,
\&               -fill => 'x');
.Ve
.Vb 1
\& MainLoop;
.Ve
.Vb 1
\& print "Exit Stage right!\en";
.Ve
.Vb 1
\& exit;
.Ve
.SH "METHODS"
.Ip "" 4
The following non-standard method may be used with a FileDialog object
.Ip "" 4
.Sh "Show"
Displays the file dialog box for the user to operate.  Additional configuration
items may be passed in at Show-time In other words, this code snippet:
.Sp
.Vb 1
\&  $fd->Show(-Title => 'Ooooh, Preeeeeety!');
.Ve
is the same as this code snippet:
.Sp
.Vb 2
\&  $fd->configure(-Title => 'Ooooh, Preeeeeety!');
\&  $fd->Show;
.Ve
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
Any of the following configuration items may be set via the configure (or Show) method,
or retrieved via the cget method.
.Sh "\fIFlags\fR"
Flags may be configured with either 1,'true\*(R', or \*(L'yes\*(R' for 1, or 0, \*(L'false\*(R', or \*(L'no\*(R'
for 0. Any portion of \*(L'true\*(R', \*(L'yes\*(R', \*(L'false\*(R', or \*(L'no\*(R' may be used, and case does not
matter.
.Ip "" 4
.Sh "-Chdir"
.Ip "" 12
Enable the user to change directories. The default is 1. If disabled, the directory
list box will not be shown.
.Sh "-Create"
.Ip "" 12
Enable the user to specify a file that does not exist. If not enabled, and the user
specifies a non-existent file, a dialog box will be shown informing the user of the
error (This Dialog Box is configurable via the EDlg* switches, below).
.Sp
default: 1
.Sh "-ShowAll"
.Ip "" 12
Determines whether hidden files (.*) are displayed in the File and Directory Listboxes.
The default is 0. The Show All Checkbox reflects the setting of this switch.
.Sh "-DisableShowAll"
.Ip "" 12
Disables the ability of the user to change the status of the ShowAll flag. The default
is 0 (the user is by default allowed to change the status).
.Sh "-Grab"
.Ip "" 12
Enables the File Dialog to do an application Grab when displayed. The default is 1.
.Sh "-Horiz"
.Ip "" 12
True sets the File List box to be to the right of the Directory List Box. If 0, the
File List box will be below the Directory List box. The default is 1.
.Sh "-SelDir"
.Ip "" 12
If True, enables selection of a directory rather than a file, and disables the
actions of the File List Box. The default is 0.
.Sh "\fISpecial\fR"
.Ip "" 4
.Sh "-FPat"
.Ip "" 12
Sets the default file selection pattern. The default is \*(L'*\*(R'. Only files matching
this pattern will be displayed in the File List Box.
.Sh "-Geometry"
.Ip "" 12
Sets the geometry of the File Dialog. Setting the size is a dangerous thing to do.
If not configured, or set to \*(L'\*(R', the File Dialog will be centered.
.Sh "-SelHook"
.Ip "" 12
SelHook is configured with a reference to a routine that will be called when a file
is chosen. The file is called with a sole parameter of the full path and file name
of the file chosen. If the Create flag is disabled (and the user is not allowed
to specify new files), the file will be known to exist at the time that SelHook is
called. Note that SelHook will also be called with directories if the SelDir Flag
is enabled, and that the FileDialog box will still be displayed. The FileDialog box
should \fBnot\fR be destroyed from within the SelHook routine, although it may generally
be configured.
.Sp
SelHook routines return 0 to reject the selection and allow the user to reselect, and
any other value to accept the selection. If a SelHook routine returns non-zero, the
FileDialog will immediately be withdrawn, and the file will be returned to the caller.
.Sp
There may be only one SelHook routine active at any time. Configuring the SelHook
routine replaces any existing SelHook routine. Configuring the SelHook routine with
0 removes the SelHook routine. The default SelHook routine is undef.
.Sh "\fIStrings\fR"
The following two switches may be used to set default variables, and to get final
values after the Show method has returned (but has not been explicitly destroyed
by the caller)
.Ip "" 4
\fB\-File\fR  The file selected, or the default file. The default is \*(L'\*(R'.
.Sp
\fB\-Path\fR  The path of the selected file, or the initial path. The default is \f(CW$ENV\fR{'\s-1HOME\s0'}.
.Sh "\fILabels and Captions\fR"
For support of internationalization, the text on any of the subwidgets may be
changed.
.Ip "" 4
\fB\-Title\fR  The Title of the dialog box. The default is \*(L'Select File:\*(R'.
.Sp
\fB\-DirLBCaption\fR  The Caption above the Directory List Box. The default is \*(L'Directories\*(R'.
.Sp
\fB\-FileLBCaption\fR  The Caption above the File List Box. The default is \*(L'Files\*(R'.
.Sp
\fB\-FileEntryLabel\fR  The label to the left of the File Entry. The Default is \*(L'Filename:\*(R'.
.Sp
\fB\-PathEntryLabel\fR  The label to the left of the Path Entry. The default is \*(L'Pathname:\*(R'.
.Sp
\fB\-FltEntryLabel\fR  The label to the left of the Filter entry. The default is \*(L'Filter:\*(R'.
.Sp
\fB\-ShowAllLabel\fR  The text of the Show All Checkbutton. The default is \*(L'Show All\*(R'.
.Sh "\fIButton Text\fR"
For support of internationalization, the text on the three buttons may be changed.
.Ip "" 4
\fB\-OKButtonLabel\fR  The text for the \s-1OK\s0 button. The default is \*(L'\s-1OK\s0\*(R'.
.Sp
\fB\-RescanButtonLabel\fR  The text for the Rescan button. The default is \*(L'Rescan\*(R'.
.Sp
\fB\-CancelButtonLabel\fR  The text for the Cancel button. The default is \*(L'Cancel\*(R'.
.Sh "\fIError Dialog Switches\fR"
If the Create switch is set to 0, and the user specifies a file that does not exist,
a dialog box will be displayed informing the user of the error. These switches allow
some configuration of that dialog box.
.Ip "" 4
.Sh "-EDlgTitle"
.Ip "" 12
The title of the Error Dialog Box. The default is \*(L'File does not exist!\*(R'.
.Sh "-EDlgText"
.Ip "" 12
The message of the Error Dialog Box. The variables \f(CW$path\fR, \f(CW$file\fR, and \f(CW$filename\fR
(the full path and filename of the selected file) are available. The default
is \fI"You must specify an existing file.\en(\e$filename not found)\*(R"\fR
.SH "Author"
\fBBrent B. Powers, Merrill Lynch (B2Pi)\fR
.PP
powers@ml.com
.PP
This code may be distributed under the same conditions as Perl itself.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "FileDialog 3"
.IX Name "Tk::FileDialog - A highly configurable File Dialog widget for Perl/Tk."

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Subsection "Usage Description"

.IX Subsection "Example Code"

.IX Item ""

.IX Header "METHODS"

.IX Item ""

.IX Item ""

.IX Subsection "Show"

.IX Header "CONFIGURATION"

.IX Subsection "\fIFlags\fR"

.IX Item ""

.IX Subsection "-Chdir"

.IX Item ""

.IX Subsection "-Create"

.IX Item ""

.IX Subsection "-ShowAll"

.IX Item ""

.IX Subsection "-DisableShowAll"

.IX Item ""

.IX Subsection "-Grab"

.IX Item ""

.IX Subsection "-Horiz"

.IX Item ""

.IX Subsection "-SelDir"

.IX Item ""

.IX Subsection "\fISpecial\fR"

.IX Item ""

.IX Subsection "-FPat"

.IX Item ""

.IX Subsection "-Geometry"

.IX Item ""

.IX Subsection "-SelHook"

.IX Item ""

.IX Subsection "\fIStrings\fR"

.IX Item ""

.IX Subsection "\fILabels and Captions\fR"

.IX Item ""

.IX Subsection "\fIButton Text\fR"

.IX Item ""

.IX Subsection "\fIError Dialog Switches\fR"

.IX Item ""

.IX Subsection "-EDlgTitle"

.IX Item ""

.IX Subsection "-EDlgText"

.IX Item ""

.IX Header "Author"

