.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH MESSAGE 1 "perl 5.005, patch 53" "31/Jul/98" "User Contributed Perl Documentation"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
Tk::Message \- Create and manipulate Message widgets
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fI$message\fR = \fI$parent\fR\->\fBMessage\fR(?\fIoptions\fR?);
.SH "STANDARD OPTIONS"
\fB\-anchor\fR	\fB\-font\fR	\fB\-highlightthickness\fR	\fB\-takefocus\fR
\fB\-background\fR	\fB\-foreground\fR	\fB\-padx\fR	\fB\-text\fR
\fB\-borderwidth\fR	\fB\-highlightbackground\fR	\fB\-pady\fR	\fB\-textvariable\fR
\fB\-cursor\fR	\fB\-highlightcolor\fR	\fB\-relief\fR	\fB\-width\fR
.PP
See the \fITk::options\fR manpage for details of the standard options.
.SH "WIDGET\-SPECIFIC OPTIONS"
.Ip "Name:	\fBaspect\fR" 4
.Ip "Class:	\fBAspect\fR" 4
.Ip "Switch:	\fB\-aspect\fR" 4
Specifies a non-negative integer value indicating desired
aspect ratio for the text.  The aspect ratio is specified as
100*width/height.  100 means the text should
be as wide as it is tall, 200 means the text should
be twice as wide as it is tall, 50 means the text should
be twice as tall as it is wide, and so on.
Used to choose line length for text if \fBwidth\fR option
isn't specified.
Defaults to 150.
.Ip "Name:	\fBjustify\fR" 4
.Ip "Class:	\fBJustify\fR" 4
.Ip "Switch:	\fB\-justify\fR" 4
Specifies how to justify lines of text.
Must be one of \fBleft\fR, \fBcenter\fR, or \fBright\fR.  Defaults
to \fBleft\fR.
This option works together with the \fBanchor\fR, \fBaspect\fR,
\fBpadX\fR, \fBpadY\fR, and \fBwidth\fR options to provide a variety
of arrangements of the text within the window.
The \fBaspect\fR and \fBwidth\fR options determine the amount of
screen space needed to display the text.
The \fBanchor\fR, \fBpadX\fR, and \fBpadY\fR options determine where this
rectangular area is displayed within the widget's window, and the
\fBjustify\fR option determines how each line is displayed within that
rectangular region.
For example, suppose \fBanchor\fR is \fBe\fR and \fBjustify\fR is
\fBleft\fR, and that the message window is much larger than needed
for the text.
The the text will displayed so that the left edges of all the lines
line up and the right edge of the longest line is \fBpadX\fR from
the right side of the window;  the entire text block will be centered
in the vertical span of the window.
.Ip "Name:	\fBwidth\fR" 4
.Ip "Class:	\fBWidth\fR" 4
.Ip "Switch:	\fB\-width\fR" 4
Specifies the length of lines in the window.
The value may have any of the forms acceptable to \fBTk_GetPixels\fR.
If this option has a value greater than zero then the \fBaspect\fR
option is ignored and the \fBwidth\fR option determines the line
length.
If this option has a value less than or equal to zero, then
the \fBaspect\fR option determines the line length.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBMessage\fR method creates a new window (given by the
\f(CW$widget\fR argument) and makes it into a message widget.
Additional
options, described above, may be specified on the command line
or in the option database
to configure aspects of the message such as its colors, font,
text, and initial relief.  The \fBmessage\fR command returns its
\f(CW$widget\fR argument.  At the time this command is invoked,
there must not exist a window named \f(CW$widget\fR, but
\f(CW$widget\fR's parent must exist.
.PP
A message is a widget that displays a textual string.  A message
widget has three special features.  First, it breaks up
its string into lines in order to produce a given aspect ratio
for the window.  The line breaks are chosen at word boundaries
wherever possible (if not even a single word would fit on a
line, then the word will be split across lines).  Newline characters
in the string will force line breaks;  they can be used, for example,
to leave blank lines in the display.
.PP
The second feature of a message widget is justification.  The text
may be displayed left-justified (each line starts at the left side of
the window), centered on a line-by-line basis, or right-justified
(each line ends at the right side of the window).
.PP
The third feature of a message widget is that it handles control
characters and non-printing characters specially.  Tab characters
are replaced with enough blank space to line up on the next
8-character boundary.  Newlines cause line breaks.  Other control
characters (ASCII code less than 0x20) and characters not defined
in the font are displayed as a four-character sequence \fB\ex\fR\fIhh\fR where
\fIhh\fR is the two-digit hexadecimal number corresponding to
the character.  In the unusual case where the font doesn't contain
all of the characters in ``0123456789abcdef\ex'\*(R' then control
characters and undefined characters are not displayed at all.
.SH "WIDGET METHODS"
The \fBMessage\fR method creates a widget object.
This object supports the \fBconfigure\fR and \fBcget\fR methods
described in the \fITk::options\fR manpage which can be used to enquire and
modify the options described above.
The widget also inherits all the methods provided by the generic
Tk::Widget class.
.SH "DEFAULT BINDINGS"
When a new message is created, it has no default event bindings:
messages are intended for output purposes only.
.SH "BUGS"
Tabs don't work very well with text that is centered or right-justified.
The most common result is that the line is justified wrong.
.SH "KEYWORDS"
message, widget

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "MESSAGE 1"
.IX Name "Tk::Message - Create and manipulate Message widgets"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "STANDARD OPTIONS"

.IX Header "WIDGET\-SPECIFIC OPTIONS"

.IX Item "Name:	\fBaspect\fR"

.IX Item "Class:	\fBAspect\fR"

.IX Item "Switch:	\fB\-aspect\fR"

.IX Item "Name:	\fBjustify\fR"

.IX Item "Class:	\fBJustify\fR"

.IX Item "Switch:	\fB\-justify\fR"

.IX Item "Name:	\fBwidth\fR"

.IX Item "Class:	\fBWidth\fR"

.IX Item "Switch:	\fB\-width\fR"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "WIDGET METHODS"

.IX Header "DEFAULT BINDINGS"

.IX Header "BUGS"

.IX Header "KEYWORDS"

